Donation Tracker System

This is a full-stack donation tracking application built with a .NET 8 Web API backend using SQLite and a React frontend. The backend is designed for easy integration swapping using Dependency Injection.

Deliverables Summary

Backend: .NET 9 Web API with two endpoints: POST /donations (Save donation and sync to mock CRM) and GET /donations (Retrieve all donations). Uses EF Core with SQLite. 

Frontend: Single-file React application (App.jsx) for submission and display.

Integration Simulation: The DonationsController calls an abstract ICRMService. The current implementation (MockCRMService) logs the donation and simulates a success/failure based on the amount (> $100 for success).

Containerization: A Dockerfile is provided for easy deployment.

🚀 How to Run the Project

Prerequisites

.NET 8 SDK

Docker and Docker Compose (recommended for easy setup)

1. Backend Setup (Local)

Database Migration (Initial Run):

Create a simple appsettings.json in the same directory as Program.cs for the connection string (though the code provides a fallback).

Run the application using dotnet run. The Program.cs startup logic will automatically apply the EF Core migrations and create the DonationTracker.db file.

Run the API:

dotnet run


The API will typically run on http://localhost:5000 or http://localhost:5001.

2. Backend Setup (Docker)

Build the Image:

docker build -t donation-tracker-api .


Run the Container:

docker run -d -p 5000:80 --name donation-api donation-tracker-api


The API is now available at http://localhost:5000.

3. Frontend Setup

The React file (DonationTracker.jsx) is a single, standalone component. You can run it directly in a React environment. It is configured to talk to the API at http://localhost:5000.

📐 Design Choices

1. Swappable Integrations (The CRM Layer)

Principle: Dependency Inversion Principle (DIP) and Strategy Pattern.

Implementation: An ICRMService interface is defined in ICRMService.cs. The application is configured in Program.cs to inject the concrete implementation (MockCRMService) into the DonationsController.

Benefit: To switch from MockCRMService to a real BlackbaudService or DynamicsService, you only need to:

Create the new service class implementing ICRMService.

Change the single registration line in Program.cs:

// Before: builder.Services.AddScoped<ICRMService, MockCRMService>();
// After: builder.Services.AddScoped<ICRMService, BlackbaudService>(); 


The DonationsController remains completely unaware of the underlying CRM technology.

2. Data Access Layer

Principle: Repository Pattern.

Implementation: IDonationRepository abstracts the data storage logic. DonationRepository implements it using EF Core/SQLite.

Benefit: This makes the application logic in the DonationsController database-agnostic. If we decided to switch from SQLite to PostgreSQL, we would only update DonationRepository.cs and the connection string, leaving the controller untouched.

3. API Design

Model/DTO Separation: Used Donation for the database entity and NewDonationDto for the incoming POST request. This prevents "over-posting" security risks and keeps the internal data model flexible.

Async/Await: All repository and service methods are asynchronous (Task<T>) to ensure non-blocking I/O operations, which is crucial for scalable web APIs.

⏭️ Next Steps (If given more time)

Robust CRM Integration: Implement a queueing system (e.g., using RabbitMQ or Azure Service Bus) for the CRM sync. Instead of calling the CRM API synchronously in the controller, the controller would publish a DonationCreated message to the queue. A dedicated Worker Service would process this message and handle the external API call, adding retry logic and robust error logging.

Authentication/Authorization: Secure the API endpoints ([Authorize] attributes) and implement token-based authentication (JWT).

Frontend Polish: Implement form validation, better loading states, and use a dedicated state management library (like Redux or Zustand) for larger applications.

Full Container Orchestration: Create a docker-compose.yml to spin up the .NET API, a dedicated database (e.g., PostgreSQL or SQL Server for production), and the React frontend simultaneously for a complete development environment.

Logging & Telemetry: Integrate structured logging (e.g., Serilog) and application performance monitoring (APM) tools (e.g., Application Insights) for production-grade monitoring.